Prepare release 0.56.0 (#2546)
zenml-io/zenml: RELEASE_NOTES.md

<!-- markdown-link-check-disable -->
# 0.56.0

ZenML 0.56.0 introduces a wide array of new features, enhancements, and bug fixes,
with a strong emphasis on elevating the user experience and streamlining machine
learning workflows. Most notably, you can now deploy models using Hugging Face inference endpoints thanks for an open-source community contribution of this model deployer stack component!

This release also comes with a breaking change to the services
architecture.

## Breaking Change

A significant change in this release is the migration of the `Service` (ZenML's technical term for deployment)
registration and deployment from local or remote environments to the ZenML server.

> This change which will be reflected in an upcoming tab in the dashboard which will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This change will be reflected in an upcoming tab in the dashboard which will
```

> allow users to explore and see the deployed models in the dashboard with their latest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
allow users to explore and see the deployed models in the dashboard with their live
```

status and metadata. This architectural shift also simplifies the model deployer
abstraction and streamlines the model deployment process for users by moving from
limited built-in steps to a more documented and flexible approach.

> Important Note: If you have already deployed models, you might want to redeploy them to
> have them stored in the ZenML server and tracked by ZenML, ensuring they appear in the dashboard.
> 
> Additionally, the find_model_server method now retrieves models (services) from the
> ZenML server instead of local or remote deployment environments. As a result, any
> usage of find_model_server will only return newly deployed models stored in the server.
> It is also no longer recommended to call service functions such as service.start().
> Instead, use model_deployer.start_model_server(service_id), which will allow ZenML
> to update the changed status of the service in the server.
> 
> ### Starting a service
> **Old syntax:**
> ```python
> from zenml import pipeline, 
> from zenml.integrations.bentoml.services.bentoml_deployment import BentoMLDeploymentService
> 
> @step
> def predictor(
>     service: BentoMLDeploymentService,
> ) -> None:
>     # starting the service
>     service.start(timeout=10)
> ```
> 
> **New syntax:**
> ```python
> from zenml import pipeline
> from zenml.integrations.bentoml.model_deployers import BentoMLModelDeployer
> from zenml.integrations.bentoml.services.bentoml_deployment import BentoMLDeploymentService
> 
> @step
> def predictor(
>     service: BentoMLDeploymentService,
> ) -> None:
>     # starting the service
>     model_deployer = BentoMLModelDeployer.get_active_model_deployer()
>     model_deployer.start_model_server(service_id=service.service_id, timeout=10)
> 
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Important note: If you have models that you previously deployed with ZenML, you might want to redeploy them to have them stored in the ZenML server and tracked by ZenML, ensuring they appear in the dashboard.

Additionally, the `find_model_server` method now retrieves models (services) from the
ZenML server instead of local or remote deployment environments. As a result, any
usage of `find_model_server` will only return newly deployed models stored in the server.

It is also no longer recommended to call service functions like `service.start()`.
Instead, use `model_deployer.start_model_server(service_id)`, which will allow ZenML
to update the changed status of the service in the server.

### Starting a service
**Old syntax:**
```python
from zenml import pipeline, 
from zenml.integrations.bentoml.services.bentoml_deployment import BentoMLDeploymentService

@step
def predictor(
    service: BentoMLDeploymentService,
) -> None:
    # starting the service
    service.start(timeout=10)
```

**New syntax:**
```python
from zenml import pipeline
from zenml.integrations.bentoml.model_deployers import BentoMLModelDeployer
from zenml.integrations.bentoml.services.bentoml_deployment import BentoMLDeploymentService

@step
def predictor(
    service: BentoMLDeploymentService,
) -> None:
    # starting the service
    model_deployer = BentoMLModelDeployer.get_active_model_deployer()
    model_deployer.start_model_server(service_id=service.service_id, timeout=10)

```
```

> ### Enabling continuous deployment
> 
> Instead of replace parameter that was used in `deploy_model` method to replace the
> existing service if it matches the exact same pipeline name and step name without
> taking into accounts other parameters or configurations, we now have a new parameter
> `continuous_deployment_mode` that allows you to enable continuous deployment for
> the service. This will ensure that the service is updated with the latest version
> if it's on the same pipeline and step, and the service is not already running otherwise
> any new deployment with different configurations will create a new service.
> 
> ```python
> from zenml import pipeline, step, get_step_context
> from zenml.client import Client
> 
> @step
> def deploy_model() -> Optional[MLFlowDeploymentService]:
>     # Deploy a model using the MLflow Model Deployer
>     zenml_client = Client()
>     model_deployer = zenml_client.active_stack.model_deployer
>     mlflow_deployment_config = MLFlowDeploymentConfig(
>         name: str = "mlflow-model-deployment-example",
>         description: str = "An example of deploying a model using the MLflow Model Deployer",
>         pipeline_name: str = get_step_context().pipeline_name,
>         pipeline_step_name: str = get_step_context().step_name,
>         model_uri: str = "runs:/<run_id>/model" or "models:/<model_name>/<model_version>",
>         model_name: str = "model",
>         workers: int = 1
>         mlserver: bool = False
>         timeout: int = DEFAULT_SERVICE_START_STOP_TIMEOUT
>     )
>     service = model_deployer.deploy_model(mlflow_deployment_config, continuous_deployment_mode=True)
>     logger.info(f"The deployed service info: {model_deployer.get_model_server_info(service)}")
>     return service
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Enabling continuous deployment

Instead of replacing the parameter that was used in the `deploy_model` method to replace the
existing service (if it matches the exact same pipeline name and step name without
taking into accounts other parameters or configurations), we now have a new parameter,
`continuous_deployment_mode`, that allows you to enable continuous deployment for
the service. This will ensure that the service is updated with the latest version
if it's on the same pipeline and step and the service is not already running. Otherwise,
any new deployment with different configurations will create a new service.

```python
from zenml import pipeline, step, get_step_context
from zenml.client import Client

@step
def deploy_model() -> Optional[MLFlowDeploymentService]:
    # Deploy a model using the MLflow Model Deployer
    zenml_client = Client()
    model_deployer = zenml_client.active_stack.model_deployer
    mlflow_deployment_config = MLFlowDeploymentConfig(
        name: str = "mlflow-model-deployment-example",
        description: str = "An example of deploying a model using the MLflow Model Deployer",
        pipeline_name: str = get_step_context().pipeline_name,
        pipeline_step_name: str = get_step_context().step_name,
        model_uri: str = "runs:/<run_id>/model" or "models:/<model_name>/<model_version>",
        model_name: str = "model",
        workers: int = 1
        mlserver: bool = False
        timeout: int = DEFAULT_SERVICE_START_STOP_TIMEOUT
    )
    service = model_deployer.deploy_model(mlflow_deployment_config, continuous_deployment_mode=True)
    logger.info(f"The deployed service info: {model_deployer.get_model_server_info(service)}")
    return service
```
```

any new deployment with different configurations will create a new service.

```python
from zenml import pipeline, step, get_step_context
from zenml.client import Client

@step
def deploy_model() -> Optional[MLFlowDeploymentService]:
    # Deploy a model using the MLflow Model Deployer
    zenml_client = Client()
    model_deployer = zenml_client.active_stack.model_deployer
    mlflow_deployment_config = MLFlowDeploymentConfig(
        name: str = "mlflow-model-deployment-example",
        description: str = "An example of deploying a model using the MLflow Model Deployer",
        pipeline_name: str = get_step_context().pipeline_name,
        pipeline_step_name: str = get_step_context().step_name,
        model_uri: str = "runs:/<run_id>/model" or "models:/<model_name>/<model_version>",
        model_name: str = "model",
        workers: int = 1
        mlserver: bool = False
        timeout: int = DEFAULT_SERVICE_START_STOP_TIMEOUT
    )
    service = model_deployer.deploy_model(mlflow_deployment_config, continuous_deployment_mode=True)
    logger.info(f"The deployed service info: {model_deployer.get_model_server_info(service)}")

>     return service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    return service
\`\`\`
```

Reviewer: No idea how to add the extra triple tick, but you need to add an extra triple tick as it's missing...

> ## Major Features and Enhancements:

Reviewer 2: Missing: 
- [rate limiting PR ](https://github.com/zenml-io/zenml/pull/2494)
- [admin notion](https://github.com/zenml-io/zenml/pull/2494)

Author: is it the same branch

Reviewer 2: What is the same branch? Those PRs were merged in develop...

Reviewer 2: If you ask about LLM: https://github.com/zenml-io/zenml/pull/2519

* A new `Huggingface Model Deployer` has been introduced, allowing you to seamlessly
deploy your Huggingface models using ZenML. (Thank you so much @dudeperf3ct for the contribution!)
* Faster Integration and Dependency Management ZenML now leverages the `uv` library,
significantly improving the speed of integration installations and dependency management,
resulting in a more streamlined and efficient workflow.
* Enhanced Logging and Status Tracking Logging have been improved, providing better
visibility into the state of your ZenML services.
* Improved Artifact Store Isolation: ZenML now prevents unsafe operations that access

> data outside the scope of the artifact store, ensuring better isolation and security.

Reviewer 2: This was already released in 0.55.5

<!-- markdown-link-check-disable -->
# 0.56.0

ZenML 0.56.0 introduces a wide array of new features, enhancements, and bug fixes,
with a strong emphasis on elevating the user experience and streamlining machine

> learning workflows. This release also comes with a breaking change to the services

Reviewer: ```suggestion
learning workflows. Most notably, you can now deploy models using Hugging Face inference endpoints thanks for an open-source community contribution of this model deployer stack component!

This release also comes with a breaking change to the services
```

architecture.

## Breaking Change:

A significant change in this release is the migration of `Service`(ZenML technical term for deployment)
registration and deployment from local or remote environments to the ZenML server.
This change which will be reflected in an upcoming tab in the dashboard which will
allow users to explore and see the deployed models in the dashboard with latest
status and metadata. This architectural shift also simplifies the model deployer
abstraction and streamlines the model deployment process for users by moving from
limited built-in steps to a more documented and flexible approach.

## Major Features and Enhancements:

* A new `Huggingface Model Deployer` has been introduced, allowing you to seamlessly

> deploy your Huggingface models using ZenML.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
deploy your Huggingface models using ZenML. (Thank you so much @dudeperf3ct for the contribution!)
```

* Faster Integration and Dependency Management ZenML now leverages the `uv` library,
significantly improving the speed of integration installations and dependency management,
resulting in a more streamlined and efficient workflow.
* Enhanced Logging and Status Tracking Logging have been improved, providing better
visibility into the state of your ZenML services.

> * Improved Artifact Store Isolation ZenML now prevents unsafe operations that access

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Improved Artifact Store Isolation: ZenML now prevents unsafe operations that access
```
